Date: TODO
From: Florentin Rochet <florentin.rochet@uclouvain.be>, Thien-Nam Dinh
<td18@rice.edu>
Subject: logging sensitive data from an exit node

We are looking for more realistic information about lifetime and
bandwidth consumption through time of Tor circuits. We would like to
obtain typically the following information:

- The distribution lifetime of Tor circuit, for each of the port we
  allow (non-origin Tor circuits).
- How many cells they handled during their lifetime (in and out
  direction) with 1 sec granularity.

Obviously, the second metrics implies the first one.


== What are you trying to learn, and why is that useful for the world?
   That is, what are the hoped-for benefits of your experiment?

We are doing research to incentive people to run relays by rewarding
relay operators with a crypto-currency internal to Tor. The design of
the scheme as well as a proof of feasibility (or non-feasibility) from a
performance viewpoint is part of the project. In consequence, we are
trying to learn what is the typical use of Tor clients to design a
payment system for bandwidth prioritization that would make sense.

== What exactly is your plan? That is, what are the steps of your
   experiment, what will you collect, how will you keep it safe, and so
   on.

I (Florentin) run some exit nodes. I plan to modify one of them to
strictly log the information mentioned above and nothing else. All
information transfer between the VPS holding the exit relay is done
through an authenticated and encrypted channel. Once we are satisfied
with the post-processing of the data (basically doing graphs), we would
erase the data.

== What attacks or risks might be introduced or assisted because of your
   actions or your data sets, and how well do you resolve each of them?

A granularity bandwidth consumption of Tor circuits could potentially be
interesting to some malicious party. Moreover, it could bring attention
to my exit relays even months after the research took place.

== Walk us through why the benefits from item 1 outweigh the remaining
   risks from item 3: why is this plan worthwhile despite the remaining
   risks?

item 3 is more or less a worst-case scenario, while our research could
potentially turns to be something that would improve Tor's anonymity
(best-case scenario). In the middle, nothing happens.
There are maybe other risks we did not notice. We will be glad to take
them in account if you raise them.
